Three U.S. Marines have died in al Anbar Province west of Baghdad, the Coalition Public Information Center said Tuesday.
According to CPIC, "Two Marines assigned to [1st] Marine Expeditionary Force were killed in action and one Marine died of wounds received in action Monday in the Al Anbar Province while conducting security and stability operations.“
Al Anbar Province -- a hotbed for Iraqi insurgents -- includes the restive cities of Ramadi and Fallujah and runs to the Syrian and Jordanian borders.
Meanwhile, officials said eight people died Monday in a U.S. air raid on a house in Fallujah that American commanders said was used to harbor Islamic militants.
A statement from interim Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi said his government's security forces provided "clear and compelling intelligence" that led to the raid.
A senior U.S. military official told CNN the target was a group of people suspected of planning suicide attacks using vehicles.
The strike was the latest in a series of raids on the city to target what U.S. military spokesmen have called safehouses for the network led by fugitive Islamic militant leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.
A statement from Allawi said: "The people of Iraq will not tolerate terrorist groups or those who collaborate with any other foreign fighters such as the Zarqawi network to continue their wicked ways.
"The sovereign nation of Iraq and our international partners are committed to stopping terrorism and will continue to hunt down these evil terrorists and weed them out, one by one. I call upon all Iraqis to close ranks and report to the authorities on the activities of these criminal cells.“
American planes dropped two 1,000-pound bombs and four 500-pound bombs on the house about 7:15 p.m. (11:15 a.m. ET), according to a statement from the U.S.-led Multi-National Force-Iraq.
"This operation employed precision weapons and underscores the resolve of multinational forces and Iraqi security forces to jointly destroy terrorist networks in Iraq," a military statement said.
A doctor at Fallujah Hospital said the dead included four men, a woman and three children, some of them members of the same family. Another three people were wounded, the doctor said.
U.S. officials blame Zarqawi, who is believed to have links to al Qaeda, for numerous attacks on Iraqi and U.S. civilians and coalition troops.
At least four previous air raids have targeted suspected Zarqawi safehouses in Fallujah.